# MSIN0114-Dissertation
Dynamic Pricing in Retail: A Predictive Analytics and Moving Average Approach for Driving Equitable Growth
In the context of revenue management, setting appropriate pricing strategies have been a longstanding issue for most business retailers. By leveraging on the power of data analytics, firms across the world are beginning to recognize the value of capitalizing on their vast quantities of data to enable smart decision-making. In addition to the recent development in machine learning techniques and statistical modelling, this has encouraged more retail businesses to explore these domains and make use of its scalability and operational utility.  
This dissertation looks to understand and quantify the value of dynamic pricing, which is a pricing strategy that considers internal and external market factors. Within most literature surrounding dynamic pricing, it has arguably been regarded as a form of price discrimination, used to maximize revenue according to customers’ willingness to pay. Therefore, this research project aims to develop a dynamic pricing predictive model that outputs an optimal minimum selling price for all products within Online Lubricants’ database (the dissertation’s selected company) and, to ensure that pricing approaches are equitable. 
A dataset consisting of 304 features and 158419 rows of sales records were created and tested on several machine learning regressors such as Random Forest, XGBoost, Gradient Boosting and Decision Tree. This research identified Random Forest as the best performing validation performance based on its performance metric scorings i.e., R2, MAE and RMSE, suitable for deployment. This model, alongside the construction of customer-level and industry moving averages, which is an analytical tool to smooth out instable pricing data, were combined. This dissertation has contributed to novel insights towards the application of moving averages in retail.
